Project 11 Hate and Love in Poetry
This project aims to explore the Hate and Love poetry in Gutenberg. For this purpose, focus on the poetry books
in http://www.gutenberg.org. The use your own methodology to identify list of poem books related to Hate and
another list of poem books related to Love. Construct a dataframe for Hate’s ebooks and another one for Love’s
ebook

1. Use appropriate NLTK coding (you can inspire from coding examples of the online NLTK book) to
generate high level statistical description of each dataframe in terms of number of tokens, vocabulary
size, number of ebooks. Present the result in a table.

2. Use the information about the date of publication to construct a histogram showing the number of
publication of each category in each time period.

3. Now we want to comprehend the occurrence of hate and love wording in these poems. For this purpose,
consider the list of terms, which are strongly connected to Love, and another list of words strongly
connected to Hate. Use synonymy relations and other external dictionary of your choice to generate this
list. Next, for each dataframe, suggest a script that quantifies the proportion of hate related words and
love related words in each category and present the result in a histogram.

4. Next, we want to explore how the context of these words were employed in each dataframe. For this
purpose, suggest a script that scans for each occurrence of hate or love related words appearance to
retrieve the words that appear within 2-token distance on the left and right hand side of the target word.
Finally identify the frequency of these words in each dataframe. Present the results as wordcloud
illustration showing the context of hate occurrence and another one for Love occurrence in each
dataframe. Comment on the interpretation of these results.

5. Next, we want to comprehend the sequential occurrence of Love related words and Hate related words in
each dataframe. For this purpose, suggest a script that calculates the distance (in terms of number of 
tokens) between one hate-related word to the immediate next one in the dataframe, and another one for
computing the distance between love-related word and the next one. Use appropriate discretization
(taking into account the difference between the maximum and minimum distance) to construct a 10-bin
histogram showing the frequency of each distance range for both Hate and Love related terms.

6. Repeat the specification 5), when we consider the distance between a hate-related word and the next
love-related term. Comment on the result regarding the possible asymmetry of the results, and how this
can be linked to the context words identified in specification 4.

7. Use appropriate script to identify the 100-most frequent tokens of each dataframe outside the stopword
list. We want to evaluate the extent to which hate and love related terms are related the most frequent
terms. Suggest an approach to evaluate this proximity using both string matching and semantic
similarity.

8. Repeat the specification 7) when working for each poem in dataframe Love and each poem of dataframe
hate.

9. We want to test the diversity of each dataframe. For this purpose, we consider the titles of the poems in
each dataframe. Suggest a script that uses FastText embedding to calculate the similarity between any
pairs of titles in each dataframe using cosine similarity and assuming the embedding of the title is the
average of the embedding of its constituted words. Calculate the average semantic similarity measures of
all pairs and their associated standard deviation, maximum and minimum value.

10. We now consider the lexical diversity LD in the poem. This can be expressed using the
adjective/adverb-to-verb ratio (number of adjectives and adverbs to the number of verbs) in each line of
the poem. For this, you may select one poem at random from the first dataframe and another one from
the second dataframe (You may also select the poem whose title brings the highest similarity with the
hate/love related terms for instance, or any other reasoning). Using part-of-speech tagging that identifies
verb, adjective and adverb entities, suggest a program that calculates LD for each line of the code. Save
the result in the database. Plot the graph of LD. Suggest a 10-equal subdivision of values of LD (take the
highest value of LD and subtract the smallest value of LD and divide by 10 to find the bin value, and
then take the smallest of LD and add bin, then 2*bin, etc.. to find the next interval (You will end up with
10 intervals). Now calculate and plot the corresponding histogram (calculating the number of lines of
poem whose LD value fall within a specific interval). Find out whether a parametric fitting (polynomial,
logarithmic or exponential) can be achieved. Perform this process for both poems in each dataframe.

11. Discuss your results with respect to existing literature regarding poem structures and artistic trends of
your choice taking into account the status and type of poetry of the ebooks you used for this analysis. 